## Project Summary

This project analyzes 2020 crime data in Washington, DC, alongside 
educational attainment and demographic data from the same year, to 
identify key factors influencing crime rates. By examining the 
interplay between education, demographics, and crime, we aim to 
uncover patterns and relationships that can provide actionable 
insights for policymakers and community stakeholders.

The project begins with data collection and cleaning, ensuring 
accurate and reliable datasets for analysis. Using Python tools 
like Pandas and REGEX, we handle missing values, inconsistencies, 
and data integration challenges. Merging crime data with 
educational and demographic datasets allows us to conduct a unified 
analysis, including variables such as education levels, income, 
and geographic location.

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) plays a critical role in uncovering 
trends and relationships. Using Matplotlib, we visualize these 
patterns, and with D3.js, we create interactive visualizations to 
highlight geographic and statistical insights. The analysis 
investigates correlations and potential links, focusing on how 
education levels and demographic factors may influence crime rates.

The project culminates in an interactive dashboard that visually 
presents our findings. Through statistical analysis and 
visualization, we deliver insights to guide strategies for crime 
prevention and community development in Washington, DC. This 
comprehensive approach fosters informed decision-making and aims 
to address systemic issues affecting crime and social outcomes.
